##Data API Action: addChild(nodeKey,nodeValue)
* `nodeKey`: **String** - the name of the **Parent** API Node. The child node will have its name autogenerated and 
returned in the resolution. ([What is an API Node?](../../resources.md))
* `nodeValue`: **Object** - the settings to store the **child** node.
* `[nodeValue.lifespan]`: **String** - (Optional) the lifespan of the node.     
    * `"Persistent"`: will store the node as it changes to the backend. **This lifespan is only available to  and is the default for the data.api.**
        and is the default lifespan for a data.api node. Changing a node from persistent won't remove it from the
        backend, rather prevent further updates to be sent to the backend.
    * `"Bound"`: will destroy the node from the bus if it's bound clients (application) are allclosed. Each client that sets 
        a node's lifespan as bound will be added to the resources bound list, once all bound addresses are closed the 
        node is destroyed. **This lifespan is default for the names.api.**
    * `"Ephemeral"`: will keep the node around as long as the bus is instantiated. When all connections to the bus
        close this node is destroyed. **This lifespan is default for the intents.api and system.api.**
        
    The lifespan parameter does not have to be passed with every `set` action, rather passing it with the action will toggle
    changing the lifespan, it is advised to set the lifespan with the initial use of the node in an application.
    
* `[nodeValue.entity]`: **Object** - (Optional) the value to store in the node. 
* `[nodeValue.contentType]`: **String** - (Optional) the content type of the object that will be set. This is an 
optional parameter, in some APIs nodes have refined control based on the content they hold.
 
###Applies to only the Data API

###Creates a Child Node given a A Parent Node's Key
        
To add a child node, the `addChild` action is used on the desired parent node.

Adding a child to the Data API triggers its parent to keep an up-to-date list of its child resources in its
`collection` property. This means doing a `get` on `/shoppingCart` will return a collection of children node keys.

Since the node key of the child is runtime generated, it will be returned in the promise resolution's
`entity.resource` as a string.

```
var dataApi = client.data();

var cartEntry = {
    'price': 10,
    'size': 'M',
    'color': 'red',
    'quantity': 1
};

var cartEntryResource = "";

dataApi.addChild('/shoppingCart',{ entity: cartEntry}).then(function(res){
        cartEntryResource = res.entity.resource;
});
```
