---
layout: tutorial
title: Resource Structuring 
---
# Why the / ?
The IWC utilizes forward slashes to signify hierarchy of resources. Borrowing from REST, IWC uses the `/` to show 
the pathing of a resource relative to its API. This naming schema translates well for coupling backend requests with IWC
resources both against IWC & non-IWC backends.

# Abstracting Resources
In the previous tutorials, IWC resource interaction has been on the individual resource level 
(set, get, delete, and watch). When structuring IWC resources, it is ideal apply abstraction where possible. IWC 
resources should be unique only when necessary. For example, if the IWC is used to create a centralized shopping cart, 
a non-abstracted IWC resource may look as so:

## Centralized Resource: Poorly Structured
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart

Entity: {
  items: [
    {
      upc: 031719199112,
      price: 20.00,
      store: "amazon.com",
      quantity: 1
    },
    {
      upc: 043396281288,
      price: 5.99,
      store: "bestbuy.com",
      quantity: 5
    } 
  ],
  total: 49.95,
  count: 6
}
```

A relatively simple resource, holds an array of items in the shopping cart, total cost, and total amount of items.

**Note:** The IWC has no direct affiliation with Amazon or Best Buy. Their websites are used in this tutorial simply
for example purposes. The use-cases described below are fictional and are not actually implemented.

IWC Action's and example code on utilizing this resource structure follows in the next tutorial 
[Resource Collections](04_collections.md).
***

### Scenario
A web application, named **MyCart**, is utilizing the above `/shoppingCart` resource to track a user's shopping across 
multiple websites. Each of these websites use the IWC to update the shoppingCart whenever the user adds/removes/updates 
quantity of an item they wish to purchase. This lets the web application give the user a breakdown of how much they will
be spending at each store. Each store utilizes the `/shoppingCart` to populate the website's unique shopping cart with 
items in `/shoppingCart` pertaining to said site.

#### Pros
 * Simple logic in MyCart. Only have to watch `/shoppingCart` for changes to update GUI.

#### Cons
 * Interaction with cart items not intuitive. 
   * If increasing the quantity of an an item in the cart is desired, a `set` action has to be called with the entire 
   entity of `/shoppingCart` with the one property changed being said item's quantity.
 * A website does not hold any sense of control over its resource contribution.
   * If amazon.com's IWC client wants to increase quantity of an item, its directly modifying the same resource as 
   bestbuy.com.
   * This doesn't break functionality, but makes API development and resource uniqueness difficult.
   
***

## Abstracted Resources

### Amazon generated
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/amazon

Entity: {
  total: 20.00,
  count: 1
}
```

```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/amazon/031719199112

Entity: {
  upc: 031719199112,
  price: 20.00,
  store: "amazon.com",
  quantity: 1
}
```

If the Amazon website creates and maintains resources for each item type in the shopping cart, it can update quantities on a item
by modifying the resource at `/shoppingCart/amazon/<UPC>`. This makes deleting as simple as calling the `delete` action
on `/shoppingCart/amazon/<UPC>` as well.

The `/shoppingCart/amazon` resource is a resource generated by the Amazon website to populate the summary its shopping
cart across multiple open amazon.com windows. This utilizes resource filtering covered in the 
[Resource Collections](04_collections.md) tutorial.


### Best Buy generated
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/bestbuy

Entity: {
  total: 29.95,
  count: 5
}
```


```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/bestbuy/043396281288

Entity: {
  upc: 043396281288,
  price: 5.99,
  store: "bestbuy.com",
  quantity: 5
} 
```

Best Buy follows the same common structuring of IWC resources as Amazon.

### MyCart Generated
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart

Entity: {
  total: 49.95,
  count: 6
}
```

MyCart tracks and updates the highest-level resource /shoppingCart based on total items in any websites shopping
cart running IWC.  This utilizes resource filtering covered in the [Resource Collections](04_collections.md) tutorial.

***

## Improvements
By structuring the shopping cart resources with the above abstraction, the MyCart application can now easily modify
specific website shopping cart items. It can increment the quantity of `/shoppingCart/bestbuy/043396281288` without
causing any state changes in the Amazon website. This is because the Amazon website does not care about any resources
with a `/shoppingCart/bestbuy` prefix. 
 
This resource structure would scale well for additional website additions, when the shopping cart items grows, the 
in-memory size of `/shoppingCart` does not.