---
layout: tutorial
title: Resource Path Convention
category: intermediate
tag: 1.2.1
---
# Why the / ?
The IWC utilizes forward slashes to signify hierarchy of resources. Borrowing from REST, IWC uses the `/` to show
the pathing of a resource relative to its API. This naming schema translates well for coupling backend requests with IWC
resources both against IWC & non-IWC backends.

**The IWC relates resources based on their path**, if a reference `/a` calls its
`list` action (covered in the following tutorial
[Resource Collections](05_collections.html)) and resources `/a/b` and `/a/c`
exist on the IWC Bus, the reference will receive notification that resources
`/a/b` and `/a/c` exist.

# Abstracting Resources
In the previous tutorials, IWC resource interaction has been on the individual resource level
(set, get, delete, and watch). When structuring IWC resources, it is ideal apply abstraction where possible. IWC
resources should be unique only when necessary. For example, if the IWC is used to create a centralized shopping cart,
a non-abstracted IWC resource may look as so:

## Centralized Resource: Poorly Structured
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart

Value: {
  items: [
    {
      upc: 031719199112,
      price: 20.00,
      store: "amazon.com",
      quantity: 1
    },
    {
      upc: 043396281288,
      price: 5.99,
      store: "bestbuy.com",
      quantity: 5
    }
  ],
  total: 49.95,
  count: 6
}
```

A relatively simple resource, holds an array of items in the shopping cart, total cost, and total amount of items.

**Note:** The IWC has no direct affiliation with Amazon or Best Buy. Their websites are used in this tutorial simply
for example purposes. The use-cases described below are fictional and are not actually implemented.

IWC Action's and example code on utilizing this resource structure follows in the next tutorial
[Resource Collections](05_collections.html).
***

## Scenario
A web application, named **MyCart**, is utilizing the above Data API resource,
`/shoppingCart`,  to aggregate a user's shopping list across multiple websites.
Each of these websites use the IWC to update the shoppingCart whenever the user
adds/removes/updates quantity of an item they wish to purchase. This lets the
web application give the user a breakdown of how much they will be spending at
each store. Each store utilizes the `/shoppingCart` to populate the website's
unique shopping cart with items in `/shoppingCart` pertaining to said site.

#### Pros
 * Simple logic in MyCart. Only have to watch `/shoppingCart` for changes to update GUI.

#### Cons
 * Interaction with cart items not intuitive.
   * If increasing the quantity of an an item in the cart is desired, a `set`
    action has to be called with the entire value of `/shoppingCart` with the
    one property changed being said item's quantity.
 * A website does not hold any sense of control over its resource contribution.
   * If amazon.com's IWC client wants to increase quantity of an item, its
   directly modifying the same resource as bestbuy.com.
   * This doesn't break functionality, but makes API development confusing and
    resource collision likely.

***

## Abstracted Resources
Rather than stuffing all of the shopping cart details into `/shoppingCart`,
consider the following resource structure:

### Amazon Generated Resources

#### Amazon shoppingCart
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/amazon

Value: {
  total: 20.00,
  count: 1
}
```

#### Amazon shoppingCart item
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/amazon/031719199112

Value: {
  upc: 031719199112,
  price: 20.00,
  store: "amazon.com",
  quantity: 1
}
```

If the Amazon website creates and maintains resources for each item type in the
shopping cart, it can update quantities on a item by modifying the resource at
`/shoppingCart/amazon/<UPC>`. This makes deleting as simple as calling the
`delete` action on `/shoppingCart/amazon/<UPC>` as well.

The `/shoppingCart/amazon` resource is a resource generated by the Amazon
website to populate the summary its shopping cart across multiple open
amazon.com windows. This utilizes resource filtering covered in the
[Resource Collections](05_collections.html) tutorial.


### Best Buy Generated Resources

#### Best Buy shoppingCart
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/bestbuy

Value: {
  total: 29.95,
  count: 5
}
```
#### Best Buy shoppingCart item
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart/bestbuy/043396281288

Value: {
  upc: 043396281288,
  price: 5.99,
  store: "bestbuy.com",
  quantity: 5
}
```

Best Buy follows the same common structuring of IWC resources as Amazon.

### MyCart Generated
```
API: Data API
Resource: /shoppingCart

Value: {
  total: 49.95,
  count: 6
}
```

MyCart tracks and updates the highest-level resource /shoppingCart based on
total items in any websites shopping cart running IWC.  This utilizes resource
filtering covered in the [Resource Collections](05_collections.html) tutorial.

***

## Improvements
By structuring the shopping cart resources with the above abstraction, the
MyCart application can now easily modify specific website shopping cart items.
It can increment the quantity of `/shoppingCart/bestbuy/043396281288` without
causing any state changes in the Amazon website. This is because the Amazon
website does not care about any resources with a `/shoppingCart/bestbuy` prefix.

This resource structure would scale well for additional website additions,
when the shopping cart items grows, the in-memory size of `/shoppingCart` does not.
If Ebay (also not IWC affiliated) decides to add IWC for data sharing, and
follows the resource naming convention with `/shoppingCart/ebay`, **myCart**
will automatically benefit from ebay's resources without changing any code.
